# Understanding the devbox.json file

Okay, let's see where the magic happens: the `devbox.json`{{}} file. Make sure you are in the correct folder by using `ls`{{exec}}, and then simply open it using `nano devbox.json`{{exec}}.

This file was generated by DevBox. Let’s take a look at what’s inside.

In the `"packages"`{{}} key, we can list all the packages we want the environment to have by default. We can see that we've chosen to include the latest version of Python.

In the `"shell"`{{}} key, we have the scripts: the ones that run when initializing the environment (`"init_hooks"`{{}}), and the rest, which are executed when we call them (`"scripts"`{{}}). We can see that we’ve also chosen to start the Python virtual environment (which is something different from DevBox) right away. Additionally, we can see how the `py`{{}} script is defined: it is a list of strings, where each string represents one line of a bash script, in our case we check if the `pip` dependencies are installed and in negative case install them before running the project. This way, we ensure that if the application is not installed, we handle it automatically (reducing manual work), and afterwards, we run the application just like we tried to do at the beginning of the tutorial. Isn’t it beautiful?

Now that we understand the `devbox.json` file, let’s check the Python versions inside and outside the environment.

Just remember to exit nano with `Ctrl+X` before executing the commands.

We are currently outside of the environment since DevBox only keeps it open while running a script. Let’s check the Python version here:

```bash
python --version
```{{exec}}
(If you see 3.12 is because you did not exit corretly the shell in the previous step, just run `exit`{{exec}} and try again)

Oh, what a surprise—it hasn’t changed.
Let’s enter the DevBox environment and check the Python version again:

```bash
devbox shell
python --version
```{{exec}}

We can see that the version is 3.12. It worked!

Now we can exit the shell with the command `exit`{{exec}}.

Okay, let’s continue! Now you’ll have to do a bit more than just executing commands.
